```javascript
while (queue.waitForMessage) {
  queue.processMessage();
}
```
`queue.waitForMessage()` waits `synchronously` for a message to arrive (if one is not already available and waiting to be handled).

Each message is processed completely before any other message is processed.

> A downside of this model is that if a message takes too long to complete, the web application is unable to process user interactions like click or scroll. The browser mitigates this with the "a script is taking too long to run" dialog. A good practice to follow is to make message processing short and if possible cut down one message into several messages.

## Adding messages
In web browsers, messages are added anytime an event occurs and there is an event listener attached to it. If there is no listener, the event is lost. So a click on an element with a click event handler will add a message — likewise with any other event.

The first two arguments to the function setTimeout are a message to add to the queue and a time value (optional; defaults to 0). The time value represents the (minimum) delay after which the message will be pushed into the queue. If there is no other message in the queue, and the stack is empty, the message is processed right after the delay. However, if there are messages, the setTimeout message will have to wait for other messages to be processed. For this reason, the second argument indicates a minimum time — not a `guaranteed` time.

```javascript
const seconds = new Date().getTime() / 1000;

setTimeout(() => {
  // prints out "2", meaning that the callback is not called immediately after 500 milliseconds.
  console.log(`Ran after ${new Date().getTime() / 1000 - seconds} seconds`);
}, 500);

while (true) {
  if (new Date().getTime() / 1000 - seconds >= 2) {
    console.log("Good, looped for 2 seconds");
    break;
  }
}
```